# Errors

Errors are, in the opinion of the author, the most important and yet most often overlooked portion
of any command line application. Without good, comprehensible and correct errors it's *very*
difficult to use a program for anything other than trivial work.

Errors can be divided in three categories: 

 * Errors for end user consumption
 * Errors for bugs, or other application level errors that aren't meant for users
 * Errors meant for developers, or debugging information

 Bullet number three is almost not an error per-se, and more a kind of logging information, but it
 can often be combined with bullet number two and be an actual error.

 Error handling is also a topic that seems trivial in the abstract, but quickly becomes complex.
 There are multiple idioms and ways to tackle this subject in Rust. Each way has their pros and cons 
 and may be determined by other reasons such as whether or not the crate in question is a library or
 a binary. Because this book deals with binaries, that portion of the decision is already made. We
 can assume that the majority of our errors will be end user consumption, which at a high level
 means not including gory low level details, but instead focusing on how to correct the issue at
 hand.

There is an excellent crate called [`error-chain`] that can make this complex subject relatively
trivial. Using it's calling card functionality of "error stack traces" is not a *great* fit for
binaries in that it may be information overload for a user. The comparison can be made to many
commercial operating systems and Linux variants; the commercial offerings will probably show a nice
pretty window saying, "You don't have permission to do that", where as a Linux variant may say
something along the lines of, "A particular library in use is incompatible with current user
permissions on file /foo/bar/baz at address 0xE3A023A."

It's a common fault, that even the author of this book falls prey to, we as programmers usually know
*exactly* why something is failing. We often want to give as much information as possible to the
user, because why not? The problem is it's many times only helpful to other programmers, or systems
experts. It's a *far* better practice to give minimal, but correct information. If we have the extra
information available, we can then give the user the option to list the additional details, and 
perhaps even guide them to a bug report if the problem persists. This is the best of both worlds and
can be facilitated with something like a `--verbose` flag and [`error-chain`].

[`error-chain`]: https://crates.io/crates/error-chain